Source: The Pioneer Online — Student Newspaper, Cal State East Bay
URL: https://thepioneeronline.com/28223/opinions/the-cuisine-congestion-of-csueb/
Author: Robert Marrujo, Contributor
Date: October 29, 2015

Title: The Cuisine Congestion of CSUEB

I was surprised when I received an email from Cal State East Bay asking me to participate in a "dining services survey" with the possibility of winning a gift card. I initially appreciated the school's sudden interest in resolving its dining situation, but after a moment of pause my response became: "Why does the school need a survey to figure out there isn't enough food on campus?"

Going through this survey it's clear there's an extreme disconnect between the everyday reality of the student body and the administration. Anyone who's been a student at East Bay within the past five years can attest to the sea of bodies that needs to be waded through to get a bite to eat on campus. Though there are moments when lines are reasonable, most students can expect to wait anywhere between fifteen to twenty minutes to eat, sometimes longer.

Any person dining on campus is affected by the inherent lack of eateries. Students with an hour between classes are in the best position to wait and get food, but those with minimal gaps in their schedule are forced to participate in a daily gamble to determine whether the line length will permit them to eat.

This survey is frustrating because it shouldn't take thousands of dollars to conduct a survey for the administration to create a solution. This has been a problem for years. Here's an instant survey — walk to Panda Express at noon and see how long it takes to get a bowl of fried rice.

The students of CSUEB have dealt with this dining situation for too long. The survey isn't set up to provide any quick resolution either. Questions about sustainability and environmental impact are laudable but how much bureaucratic red tape is the school creating by not addressing these issues directly?

In 2015 the university should have an obligation to make sure any new dining facilities are responsibly run. But incorporating every environmental preference of the student body into the planning process invites needless complications.

What is possible doesn't necessarily equate to what will make everyone happy. Some students want small shops with a green agenda but that often means limited food options and higher prices. Others want the convenience of a fast food spot to grab something quickly without paying too much. There is room for overlap, but East Bay shouldn't unrealistically concern itself with pleasing everyone. At this point the biggest concern is simply getting something built.

This current situation is the result of years of neglect. The administration was clearly enthusiastic about constructing new housing and offices from the early 2000s onward with the intent of increasing enrollment, but apparently forgot that all those new students would need food.

The school needs to make its dining options as sustainable as possible, but also shouldn't set unattainable goals that will strangle development. The key is to get moving and make it happen.
