Source: The Pioneer Online — Student Newspaper, Cal State East Bay
URL: https://thepioneeronline.com/22787/campus/five-local-spots-to-grab-food-off-campus/
Author: Erik Stenholm, Contributor
Date: October 30, 2014

Title: Five Local Spots to Grab Food Off Campus

For incoming freshmen and transfer students, the first few weeks of fall quarter can be challenging. One challenge sticks out above the rest: finding something delicious to eat near campus. The options on campus are less than well received — a 2012 CSUEB Office of Planning & Institutional Research report showed only 26 percent of students were satisfied with campus dining options.

5. Bronco Billy's Pizza Palace — 26775 Hayward Blvd, Hayward; just 0.5 miles from campus.
An old standby. Order a slice with whatever toppings suit you and you'll be stunned by their definition of a slice — it's enough to feed a small army, or one hungry Pioneer. When you're dying for a slice, just walk up the hill and all will be right with the world.

4. Shabuway — 34308 Alvarado-Niles Rd, Union City; 6 miles from campus.
A farther drive, but worth it if you're willing to try something new. Choose between seaweed, spicy miso, or ginger broths and cook your beef at the table with fresh veggies. A fun, interactive, and surprisingly light lunch or dinner option. The all-you-can-eat option can quickly become an eating competition among friends.

3. Sapporo Sushi — 22507 Main St, Hayward; 2.9 miles from campus.
The best sushi spot near CSUEB. Despite the hole-in-the-wall atmosphere, Sapporo is a clear victor. Very friendly staff, great quality sushi without ridiculous prices, and the walls are covered in Polaroid pictures of happy customers.

2. Buffalo Bill's Brewery — 1082 B St, Hayward; 2.7 miles from campus.
Solid pub fare with excellent burgers and sandwiches, underrated pizzas, and great appetizers. For students of legal drinking age, this is Hayward's best spot for craft beer. Try a grilled chicken sandwich and a craft brew after class.

1. Val's Burgers — 2115 Kelly St, Hayward; 3.6 miles from campus.
The Mecca of Bay Area burgerdom and the Holy Grail of gigantic milkshakes. Bring cash — cards are not accepted. Order a Mama Burger with grilled onions and a milkshake.
